---
title: "Fiber composite 3D segmentation with neural networks"
collection: talks
type: "Seminary"
permalink: /talks/2020-01-11-cmm
venue: "Centre for Mathematical Morphology - MINES ParisTech - PSL University"
date: 2020-01-11
location: "Fontainebleau, Paris Metropolitan Area, France"
---

[Centre for Mathematical Morphology, the image processing laboratory of MINES ParisTech - PSL University](http://www.cmm.mines-paristech.fr/?l=en_US)

[slides](http://joaopcbertoldo.github.io/files/2021-01-11-cmm-slides.pdf)

Abstract
===
X-ray Computed Tomography (XCT) generates non-invasive 3D images, which give material scientists a means of quantitatively analyzing a material's internal structure. 

However, processing tomography images often demands expertise and is a tedious, time-consuming task, creating a bottleneck to scale the analysis of large volumes of data - 3D images can weight several Gigabytes. 

Classic mathematical morphology-based techniques can help to generate phase segmentation but depend on some level of human intervention. 

This presentation will show a Deep Learning approach developed at the Centre des Matériaux MINES ParisTech and its viability as an alternative for tomographic image segmentation. We compare 2D and 3D versions of a U-net-based model, respectively, using 2D and 3D convolutions,  finding that, unlike expected, the 2D model is more suitable. 

We also evaluate the trade-off between performance and model size of several architectural variations. 

Qualitative results show that our models can process, in only 30 minutes, a 6-billion-voxel tomography with human-like quality. Finally, we show that this architecture can achieve such results only using five tomography layers. 
